Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
 Computer programming language is a set of commands, instructions and other syntax used to create a software program.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Java Virtual Machine(JVM): JVM has two primary functions. It allows Java programs to run on any operation system "Write once, Run
Anywhere". Also, it manages and optimizes program memory.

Java Runtime Environment(JRE): is part of the Java development kit that contains and orchestrates the set of tools and
minimum requirements for executing a Java application. In order for the Java program to execute, it needs a runtime environment
to load the class files. JRE contains a Java class loader.

Java Development Kit (JDK): JDK is the core component of any Java environment. It is platform independent. It provides the environment to develop and execute Java source code.
It contains development tools such as a compiler, debugger.JDK is what allows to convert the source code into a format that the JRE can execute.


What is IDE?
IDE is an integrated development environment for programming JAVA. IDE typically provides a code editor, a compiler,
and a debugger that developer accesses through a unified graphical user interface.


What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Eclipse, Netbeans, IntelliJ

Explain the entire java life cycle.
First, we will start to write the program using our preferred IDE to code Java.  After the code gets written, we have to ensure
that the file gets saved as .java file as this is what the computer understand that this is a Java based file.

Second step is compilation. The name of the Java compiler is javac. The output of of the compiler is machine independent or
platform independent code which is known as byte code.

The last step is executing the file. The execution of the file gets generated by the compiler which gets executed by the Java Virtual
Machine. Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine code 0’s and 1’s which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.

what is class?
Class is a blueprint of the object

What is object?
An object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
Main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
Main is static because the compiler can call it without the creation of an object or before the creation of an object of the class

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The Object class is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
PATH is an environment variable. It is used by operating system to find the executable files (.exe),
CLASSPATH is also an environment variable used by Application ClassLoader to locate and load the .class files(compiled java bytecodes).

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Interface can only have abstract method. An abstract class can have both abstract and non abstract method.
Variable declared in Interface are final that cannot be overwritten
Variable declared in Abstract class are not final
Interfaces uses keyword implement to be implemented, and Abstract class uses keyword extends to be implemented
Interface is slower and Abstract class is faster

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
No, you cannot make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class. You can only instantiate one of their subclasses/implementers

what is Access Specifier?
An Access Specifier is a keyword that define visibility of our element

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
OOP is Object Oriented Programming.

Inheritance: Inheritance is all about classes and uses the keyword "extend". The classes are superclasses from which subclasses extends
from. There are 3 types of inheritance: Single, Multilevel and Heirchical

Encapsulation: is data hiding. It's all about protecting variable usage. If a variable is private; to access it outside the class we must use
Setter and Getter methods.

Polymorphism - All about methods. There are multiple forms of the same method name.
There are 2 types of polymorphism: Overwriting and Overloading

Abstraction: is implementation hiding. In Abstraction a class can be implemented in multiple interfaces.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A package in Java is used to group related classes. We use a package to avoid name conflicts and to write a better maintainable
code. Java.lang is imported by default

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
An API can be described as a way to enable computers to possess a common interface and to allow them to communicate with each
other. JAVA API I have used so far are the classes, interfaces, methods, fields and the constructors

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
No it does not. it does not because it prevents ambiguity

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading is when we use the same method name with different parameters. It happens during compile time

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Exception is an event which occurs during the execution of a program that disrupts the normal flow of the program's
instruction. In order to handle the exception, we use the Try Catch to handle exception


What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static keyword in Java is used to share the same variable name or method of a given class. The static variable
can be accessed without creating any an instance of an object for those classes. Static method can only call other
static methods and variables. A static method cannot refer to a non static variable or methods. A static method can't refer
to "super" or "this" members.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Final means the value cannot be overwritten. If Final is used for variables of primitive datatype, the values cannot be changed.
When Final is used for Method, it means the method cannot be overriden by subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final- Final makes anything final. It cannot get reassigned.
Finally - this keyword is to make sure is always executed after the Try and Catch method.
Finalize - is a method we call after Java garbage collection, or during a garbage collection. Its mainly used to get rid of
different instances that's not being used.

What is a constructor ?
A block of code similar to a Method, that initiates implicitly during creation of an Object

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes we can

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
Default constructor

What is "this" keyword in java ?
This keyword is used to eliminate the confusion between class attributes and parameters with the same name

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
Super keyword is related to inheritance. It refers to the super class where the subclass is inherited from the parent class object.

What is JVM stand for ?
JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
Yes, JVM is platform independent

What version of java are you using?
I am using JDK 11.0.13

What is JAR stand for ?
JAR stands for Java Archive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
JDK is a Java Developer Kit used to develop applications in Java. It's a software bundle
that provides Java class libraries with necessary components to run the Java code.
JVM is Java Virtual Machine that executes the Java byte code and provides an environment for executing it.
JDK is also platform independent.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JVM is where its responsible for converting the Bytecode into machine specific code and makes Java program write
once run anywhere. JRE on the other hand, is an installation package that provides an environment to only run but not develop.

What is compile time and run time?
Compile time - is the period when the programming code is converted to the machine code (binary code)
Runtime - occurs after the compile time when the program is running

What is heap?
Heap is the area of memory used to store objects instantiated by applications running on the JVM.

How java manage it's memory?
Java uses an automatic memory management system called a garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is an Object which represents a sequence of characters. It is immutable.
StringBuffer and StringBuilder are classes used for String manipulation
StringBuffer is used when multiple threads are working on the same String
StringBuilder is used in a single threaded environment

What is Singleton class?
Singleton is a design pattern that ensures that a class can only have one object. It is object hiding to protect the
class

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory

when to use transient variable in java?
Transient variable is used to indicate that a field should not be part of the serialization process. We can make any
variable transient by using the transient keyword

Difference between while and do..while loop?
while loop checks the condition first and then executes the statement, where as do while loop will execute the statement first
then checks the condition

What is Enum?
Enum is a special class that represents a group of constants

What is Iterator?
Iterator is an object used to loop through collections like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
Integer takes more memory than Int. The max value for Int is 127

Why is String Immutable in Java?
String is immutable for several reasons:
in order to achieve caching, security, synchronization,class loading and performance.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor chaining is a sequence of invoking constructors upon initializing an object. It is used when we want to
call a number of constructors one after another by using only an instance.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
The difference between the 2 is that serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process, while the
parallel garbage uses multiple threads for the garbage collection

What is JIT stands for?
JIT stands for Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Java Heap space is used by java runtime to allocate memory to Objects and JRE classes. Whenever we create an object, its always
created in Heap space. Garbage collection is the process of reclaiming the runtime unused memory by destroying the unused objects

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No, Garbage collection does not guarantee that a program will run out of memory. The purpose of Garbage collector is to identify
and discard objects that are no longer needed by Java program, so that their space can be reclaimed and reused.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Java Heap is used throughout the application. Stack is only used for method currently running.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection in Java is to inspect and change the behavior of a program at runtime. It's useful because you can inspect classes,
constructors, modifiers, fields, methods and interfaces at runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
In Java, Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization of the CPU

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
Java Framework is a collection of predefined classes and functions that is used to process input, manage
hardware devices interacts with system software. It acts like a skeleton that helps the developer
to develop an application by writing their own code.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Serenity
Selenium
TestNG
Mockito
HTTPUnit
Gauge

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
TestNG is quite similar to JUnit, but with added functionalities and features such as parallel test execution,
  parameterization, and more. It is inspired by JUnit and NUnit.

What are the dependencies for this project?
 mongo java driver, my sql connector and testing

what is dependency injection in java?
Dependency Injection (DI) is a design pattern that removes the dependency from the programming code so that
it can be easy to manage and test the application. Dependency Injection makes our programming code loosely coupled.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding uses Type information for binding while Dynamic binding uses Objects to resolve binding









